Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture on the lamps vs. a missive materials especially when using
cycles.
So in front of us here we've got a light being cast onto a plane on the floor.
Now this light is contained within a square lamp holding which you can see with the outline of the light
hitting there.
Now this is quite noisy.
This one has been generated by an immersive surface essentially like the light bulb that we currently
have.
And notice at the top we've got the render time was 57 seconds.
Here we have a look at this one here that looks significantly different took slightly less time.
Well I'd say significantly less time since we're talking about animations around 9 to 10 seconds less
time and looks a lot cleaner.
It's not as messy.
This was by using a spotlight contained within that square lamp.
And then finally we've got another light source here.
This is a point light source.
So rather than the lamp type being a spotlight it is a point light source as you can see that's noisy
again.
And if we compare these together this one is probably the noisiest but it's not too far away from this
one here.
And the quickest one was the spotlight.
However there are some drawbacks from doing this as well.
And it will really be up to you and what you're working on with your project which one of these is worth
going for.
And certainly if you've got a much noisier scene you're going to have to do some sorts of post-processing
or render it for longer in order to get a cleaner image let's hop on over into blender and find out
more.
OK.
So this is where we're up to so far we've got an immersive surface inside of our lamp itself.
And then we've got the world which is something we need to talk about and also those two aerial lamps
as well.
I'm going to go back to previous here and look at this from the layout and turn rendering back on.
Now the first thing I want to do is over in your render properties go down to where you've got sampling.
Make sure this is open and currently set the viewport to 1.
Now nothing will happen initially but what will happen the next time we move.
This is the image will look incredibly grainy.
Now this is what I want to focus on for a few moments.
I've played with this a lot and it's going to take about 2000 samples to get this area particularly
clean without using any of the deep noise feature that will cover later on.
So in front of us we've got our scene we've got a lamp inside and we've got art to at the top area lamps
for the moment.
I'm going to hide those so they're no longer in our scene.
Now the world is contributing a lot of lights as well.
And what we can see very clearly is any areas that are in shadow are currently more noisier than areas
that are not especially these top surface which is facing the rest of the world.
And the reason for that is the way the blenders working is from our viewpoint here.
The rays of light are being cast out or not rays of light sorry just rays are being cast out and they're
bouncing off the surfaces.
And if they come in contact with light then we see the colour that's produced.
Now some of these don't hear anything which is why they end up black and that is what your lights paths
are all about.
So if we have a look down at the light path options we can see there are a total of maximum that total
of 12 bounces we can increase the bounce amounts to increase quality however with that we also increase
render times.
So if I said that to 36 you may not get any difference initially because the amount of times things
have to bounce if they're already black they're probably not hitting a light source anytime soon.
Angola lower that back down to 12 and you can adjust the amount of bounces that happen depending on
what's going on.
So here we've got the total that's the total maximum number of bounces but lower down we've got different
options.
So if I was to turn all of these up it's 12 we may get a slightly better cleaner render but we still
only got one sample.
So it's just sent out one set of rays to see what the scene looks like.
I'm going to turn that back down to four and four before I forget.
Okay so let's just focus on sampling for the moment.
So we've got all viewport here set up one if I go ahead and up that's it.
So it immediately gets a lot better.
And in fact by the time we reach something like 64 which won't take too long we see that the only thing
that's left that's pretty horrible is this area in front of us.
Now before we look at that in much more detail let's turn the world lights so we go down to the world
properties where it says colour.
I'm going to change that and says it's a black look at that.
So the only light in our world now is coming from our lamp itself.
And this is great because it's highlighting a couple of problems that we've got in our scene.
We have all of these speckled red areas.
And from my experience it's going to take a lot of samples to get it all the way there.
In fact if we go ahead back to our samples and set this to around 2000 which I would not recommend by
the way and we leave this to count up as I'm about to here we will see that that surface itself starts
to look pretty clean.
Now as this is coming together here you will also notice that we've seemed to have just a blue surface
underneath our lamp which is what we'd expect the light inside is just emitting a white light.
However this is all pink.
Why is it all pink.
Well it simply puts is the light is bouncing off the inside of our lampshade and then it's coming out
pink and that's why there's all of these speckles of pink as well.
It's all from the light from inside they're bouncing off the surface of our lamp and as we can see here
we're part I'm not going to go any further with this.
We're coming up to 1100 and it's starting to look much much cleaner in order to have a clean speckled
free image.
Yes increasing your samples will get you there.
I would not recommend unless you're right at the very end of this section even going close to 2000.
I'd recommend in general stopping around 200 maximum if you're having to go beyond that.
It's for a very good reason.
And by that point you're you're certain as to what that reason is one of the ways of making sure that
your scene isn't too noisy is to just make sure there's a bit of extra lights in it that will help the
scene sets allowance.
But what it's not helping here is this speckled.
So we've got the lights underneath.
That seems fine.
And we've got this red area.
Now what we can do instead is turn off our bulb let's turn off the bulb.
Suddenly it looks a lot lot cleaner.
But of course it doesn't really give the effect that we want it doesn't have the light coming out.
And I'm going to turn that back down to maybe 16 for the moment so I'm not wearing my computer out or
just wasting the planet's resources rendering something that's useless.
So let's go ahead here.
I'm under my bulb itself I seem to remember would have a point light source.
So let's go and turn that's on.
Now with a point light source as you can see we still get the speckled effect.
What happens if we grab that point light source and change it for a spot light.
Now we're going to have to be a bit more careful because the spotlight has direction as you can see
it's not still bouncing off the inside of our lamp.
So if we look at this from the side and this won't be spot on at the moment because our armature is
still at a funny angle so let's go ahead find our armature go to the pose itself and set it to rest
position.
There we go.
Now we can go back to our where we ads are pointing lamp here which is no longer pointing it's a spot
lamp.
There we go.
And now we can rotate it round so at least it's looking the right way that's rotates on the x axis There
we go probably by 90.
In minus 90.
There we go.
So now at least it's coming out and looking at the right direction.
And we can see we've got a spot light appearing here and we don't need to do anything else at the moment
because the spot lamp is already pear parents head to the bulb.
So where we go ahead and impose mode.
Start moving the head whilst we impose mode.
There we go.
Our spotlight will follow suit.
And as we can see here it's illuminating the ground exactly how you'd expect it to.
So the other thing we can now do.
I'm going to go back to wrest position for a moment so we can look at it from the side is with our spotlights
selected.
Make sure it is actually selected.
So we need to come out oppose mode into object mode as we can start playing with perhaps its power we
can put it up to 150 watts.
So we've got it illuminating more of our scene.
But this is the more important bit the spot shape should really align with how big our lamp actually
is and we can eyeball that that looks about right there.
And then of course we can show the current if we want and that looks a bit silly like that doesn't it.
Because that's not what we actually want it to look like.
But when we come back here we can see it does look a bit better.
Now this is a very very wide spot light but that is accurately representing how the light might come
out of here.
And then if we go ahead selects our arm it should go back into pose mode and move this and come out
of there we go rest position and then we should be able to if we point it all the way down which is
a bit unrealistic.
This is the area that it's covering.
So at this point this is where you start trying to make your decisions because we know that this is
going to produce a much cleaner light.
However it's not going to be as realistic.
It will still get these reflections and speckles in the scene there's very little we can do to prevent
that from happening fully.
But what it will do is it will give us a nice clean light without all the red speckles therefore not
being completely realistic.
The downside of that as well is now when we look inside the lamp let's hide our armature so it's completely
out of the way.
When we look inside of our lamp there's no bulb anymore.
So if we got any shots where we want the lamp looking towards us there isn't anything actually lighting
up the inside.
There are a couple of ways around that we can put something there but then it might block the light
or perhaps we can have a bulb in there.
But with this bulb and its material perhaps we turn down its strength to only 10 so it doesn't contribute
much to the rest of the scene especially in terms of noise or even down to one.
Perhaps one is a bit too low.
Looks like we're going to have to have it around at least 10 to give us the effect of the bulb that
will introduce a bit more noise to the scene but nowhere near as much of having all of the lights coming
from that one object and there we go.
That's pretty much the different types of lights emission.
In a nutshell.
And of course you can see it makes a dramatic effect as to what you're going to do.
Now your challenged for this lecture I'm not going to put up a challenge slide for it.
You've seen the different options here.
Which one are you going to go for.
Do you want the more realistic looking one which is incredibly important.
If you are doing a photo realistic scene or are you going for a middle ground.
How are you going to have your animation look at the camera.
If so you're going to need something inside to represent a bulb.
So give that some thought pause the video experiments in your scene and see how it looks you'd by no
means do you have to have a completely pitch black scene.
Or we can go ahead and really exaggerate this.
I've turned off these lights before to see how noisy it's going to be.
I'm going to need some lights on the scene.
Otherwise it's just not going to look any good.
I'm not going for a film noir effect here.
I still want to see my subjects.
And without those aerial lights and it's not going to give me the right effect.
Now the rest of the world itself I think I'm happy with it being pretty dark.
I may raise the color just a little sore on the world's settings.
I can go to the color itself and increase the value essentially.
So it's not quite as dark.
And that gives us a bit more scope and freedom for the depth of the scene.
Bearing in mind the camera's probably never going to look down this way or this way.
And if it does we might have to do something else with our backdrop but that's it for this lecture.
Let me know what you chose and why you chose it in the discussions and make sure you show your work
as well.
And I'll see you all over in the next lecture.